README.md, before:

[![Join the chat at https://gitter.im/gocd/gocd](https://badges.gitter.im/Join%20Chat.svg)](https://gitter.im/gocd/configrepo-plugins?utm_source=badge&utm_medium=badge&utm_campaign=pr-badge&utm_content=badge)

# gocd-jsonnet-config-plugin

[GoCD](https://www.gocd.org) plugin to keep **pipelines** and **environments**
configuration in source-control in [Jsonnet](https://jsonnet.org/).
See [this document](https://docs.gocd.org/current/advanced_usage/pipelines_as_code.html)
to find out what are GoCD configuration repositories.

This is the third GoCD configuration plugin, which builds off of the
[YAML configuration plugin](https://github.com/tomzo/gocd-yaml-config-plugin)

* Format is **extensible** - you can use libraries and functions to build your configuration
* Format is **concise** - you can use variables, functions, and imports to keep your configuration DRY
* Format is **powerful** - you can use conditionals, comprehensions, and other language features to build your configuration

# Table of contents

1. [Setup](#setup)
1. [Example configuration](#example)
1. [File pattern](#file-pattern)
1. [Validation](#Validation)
1. [Issues and questions](#Issues-and-questions)
1. [Development](#Development)
1. [License](#License)

# Setup

**Step 1**: You need to install the plugin in the GoCD server. Download it from
[the releases page](https://github.com/getsentry/gocd-jsonnet-config-plugin/releases) and place it on the GoCD server in
`plugins/external` [directory](https://docs.gocd.org/current/extension_points/plugin_user_guide.html).



**Step 2**: Follow [the GoCD documentation](https://docs.gocd.org/current/advanced_usage/pipelines_as_code.html#storing-pipeline-configuration-in-json) to add a new configuration repository.

You can use the example repository at: `https://github.com/getsentry/gocd-jsonnet-config-example.git`.

## File pattern

The default pattern is `**/*.jsonnet,**/jsonnetfile.json`, which will recursively search the entire repository for all files ending with `.jsonnet` and files named `jsonnetfile.json`. While `jsonnetfile.json` is not a valid jsonnet file, it is used to specify dependencies for the jsonnet files. See [jsonnet-bundler](https://github.com/jsonnet-bundler/jsonnet-bundler) for more information. If there are no external dependencies, you can omit the `jsonnetfile.json` file.

You can set a custom file pattern per configuration repository using the GoCD configuration UI:
![jsonnet pattern config](jsonnet_file_pattern.png)

Or in the config XML using `<configuration>`:

```xml
<config-repos>
  <config-repo pluginId="jsonnet.config.plugin" id="repo1">
    <git url="https://github.com/getsentry/gocd-jsonnet-config-plugin.git" />
    <configuration>
      <property>
        <key>file_pattern</key>
        <!-- comma-separate multiple patterns -->
        <value>pipelines/build/*.jsonnet,pipelines/lint/*.jsonnet</value>
      </property>
    </configuration>
  </config-repo>
</config-repos>
```

# Overview

Please note this brief overview of what is done by the plugin:
 * parsing jsonnet into json when GoCD server asks for it.

And this is done by the GoCD server:
 * complex logic merging multiple config repo sources and XML
 * validation of pipelines/stages/jobs/tasks domain
 * any UI rendering

# Development

## Environment setup

To build and test this plugin, you'll need java jdk >= 11.

If you have local java environment, then you may run all tests and create a ready to use jar with:
```bash
./gradlew test jar
```

## Versioning

We use semantic versioning.

Commit message:

Adding YAML parsing section into the readme

README.md, after:

[![Join the chat at https://gitter.im/gocd/gocd](https://badges.gitter.im/Join%20Chat.svg)](https://gitter.im/gocd/configrepo-plugins?utm_source=badge&utm_medium=badge&utm_campaign=pr-badge&utm_content=badge)

# gocd-jsonnet-config-plugin

[GoCD](https://www.gocd.org) plugin to keep **pipelines** and **environments**
configuration in source-control in [Jsonnet](https://jsonnet.org/).
See [this document](https://docs.gocd.org/current/advanced_usage/pipelines_as_code.html)
to find out what are GoCD configuration repositories.

This is the third GoCD configuration plugin, which builds off of the
[YAML configuration plugin](https://github.com/tomzo/gocd-yaml-config-plugin)

* Format is **extensible** - you can use libraries and functions to build your configuration
* Format is **concise** - you can use variables, functions, and imports to keep your configuration DRY
* Format is **powerful** - you can use conditionals, comprehensions, and other language features to build your configuration

# Table of contents

1. [Setup](#setup)
1. [Example configuration](#example)
1. [File pattern](#file-pattern)
1. [Validation](#Validation)
1. [Issues and questions](#Issues-and-questions)
1. [Development](#Development)
1. [License](#License)

# Setup

**Step 1**: You need to install the plugin in the GoCD server. Download it from
[the releases page](https://github.com/getsentry/gocd-jsonnet-config-plugin/releases) and place it on the GoCD server in
`plugins/external` [directory](https://docs.gocd.org/current/extension_points/plugin_user_guide.html).



**Step 2**: Follow [the GoCD documentation](https://docs.gocd.org/current/advanced_usage/pipelines_as_code.html#storing-pipeline-configuration-in-json) to add a new configuration repository.

You can use the example repository at: `https://github.com/getsentry/gocd-jsonnet-config-example.git`.

## File pattern

The default pattern is `**/*.jsonnet,**/jsonnetfile.json`, which will recursively search the entire repository for all files ending with `.jsonnet` and files named `jsonnetfile.json`. While `jsonnetfile.json` is not a valid jsonnet file, it is used to specify dependencies for the jsonnet files. See [jsonnet-bundler](https://github.com/jsonnet-bundler/jsonnet-bundler) for more information. If there are no external dependencies, you can omit the `jsonnetfile.json` file.

Additionally, you can use a pattern that matches YAML files, such as `**/*.yaml,**/*.yml`. This is useful if you want to use the same repository for both YAML and Jsonnet files. The plugin will automatically handle the parsing of
both YAML and Jsonnet files.

You can set a custom file pattern per configuration repository using the GoCD configuration UI:
![jsonnet pattern config](jsonnet_file_pattern.png)

Or in the config XML using `<configuration>`:

```xml
<config-repos>
  <config-repo pluginId="jsonnet.config.plugin" id="repo1">
    <git url="https://github.com/getsentry/gocd-jsonnet-config-plugin.git" />
    <configuration>
      <property>
        <key>file_pattern</key>
        <!-- comma-separate multiple patterns -->
        <value>pipelines/build/*.jsonnet,pipelines/lint/*.jsonnet</value>
      </property>
    </configuration>
  </config-repo>
</config-repos>
```

# Overview

Please note this brief overview of what is done by the plugin:
 * parsing jsonnet into json when GoCD server asks for it.

And this is done by the GoCD server:
 * complex logic merging multiple config repo sources and XML
 * validation of pipelines/stages/jobs/tasks domain
 * any UI rendering

# Development

## Environment setup

To build and test this plugin, you'll need java jdk >= 11.

If you have local java environment, then you may run all tests and create a ready to use jar with:
```bash
./gradlew test jar
```

## Versioning

We use semantic versioning.
